Followup Grant Proposal - Dot Marketplace Phase 3: Milestone updates with decentralized court + decentralized storage + advanced search (#1205)
w3f/Grants-Program: applications/dot_marketplace-Phase3.md

- A new file server written using the rocket framework will be provided for the integration with IPFS (using NftStorage). 

The flow of tasking pallet with milestone based submission

![Tasking-Court-Flow4 drawio](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/66478092/190300655-1d2085b3-b728-4ced-8238-f262a9c5c5f8.png)

### **Repository Hierarchy**

```bash
node
├── build.rs
├── Cargo.toml
└── src
    ├── chain_spec.rs
    ├── cli.rs
    ├── command.rs
    ├── lib.rs
    ├── main.rs
    ├── rpc.rs
    └── service.rs
pallets
├── pallet-chat
│   ├── Cargo.toml
│   ├── README.md
│   └── src
│       ├── benchmarking.rs
│       ├── lib.rs
│       ├── mock.rs
│       └── tests.rs
└── pallet-tasking
    ├── Cargo.toml
    ├── README.md
    └── src
        ├── benchmarking.rs
        ├── lib.rs
        ├── mock.rs
        ├── utils.rs
        └── tests.rs
runtime
├── build.rs
├── Cargo.toml
└── src
    └── lib.rs
```

The current focus is to enhance the existing Substrate pallet and allied code base to get a basic yet functional marketplace up and running.

### **Ecosystem Fit**

> We believe this work could be helpful for any Polkadot para-chains/ para-threads interested in including a marketplace with on-chain dispute resolution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We believe this work could be helpful for any Polkadot parachains/parathreads interested in including a marketplace with on-chain dispute resolution.
```

> - Almost all para-chains/ para-threads would find motivation in encouraging their community members to contribute meaningfully to their roadmap. This can be achieved by utilizing a marketplace like Dot Marketplace, where technical, marketing, or governance-centric projects can be published as bounties. And community members are invited to bid for and execute them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Almost all parachains/parathreads would find motivation in encouraging their community members to contribute meaningfully to their roadmap. This can be achieved by utilizing a marketplace like Dot Marketplace, where technical, marketing, or governance-centric projects can be published as bounties. And community members are invited to bid for and execute them.
```

| 0c | Testing Guide | Functions will be covered by unit tests, the documentation will describe how to run these tests. We will also provide scripts to help deploy, run and test the build. |
| 0d | Docker Image | Docker image of the build |
| 1 | Decentralized Court Module | An on-chain decentralized court for dispute resolution within the ecosystem. |
| 1a | Disapprove Milestone  | In the case of a customer not being satisfied with the work submitted by the service provider (worker). A set of jurors is shortlisted (court summon) to resolve the dispute and pass a verdict. |
| 1b | Disapprove Rating | The customer or the service provider, once they have received their rating for a particular milestone and are not satisfied with it. |
| 1c | General Dispute | A general dispute function for cases that do not fall under the categories mentioned in 1a and 1b. |
| 2 | Voting module | Each juror can review the dispute and cast their vote, which also includes their rating for both the customer and the worker. After two days, all the juror votes are counted, and a winner is identified. |

> | 3 | Frontend App  | Supporting frontend UI to test the aforementioned functionality. |

Reviewer: Do you have wireframes to demonstrate what this approximately would look like?

Author: We will be providing a skeletal UI to showcase the features of dot_marketplace. Similar, to the Phase1 submission.

Author: [Phase1 Guide](https://github.com/WowLabz/dot_marketplace_docker/tree/Phase1_Milestone3]) has the UI screenshots for the same. This will be updated for the Phase3 functionalies.

### **Milestone 3**

* **Estimated duration:** 3.0 weeks
* **FTE:** 1
* **PTE:** 2
* **Costs:** 7975 USD

The main deliverables in this milestone are to use decentralized IPFS based storages to store all the files realated to tasks & advanced search. A file server integrated to nft storage will provided, using rocket framework & the search feature will be an update to the makerplace pallet. The skeletal UI will also be updated to showcase all the new features in Phase3.

| Sr no. | Deliverable | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 0a | License | Apache 2.0 |
| 0b | Documentation | We will provide both inline documentation of the code and a tutorial that explains how a user can use DOT Marketplace and understand the flow of tasking pallet. |
| 0c | Testing Guide | Functions will be covered by unit tests, the documentation will describe how to run these tests. We will also provide scripts to help deploy, run and test the build. |
| 0d | Docker Image | Docker image of the build |

> | 1 | Decentralized Stroage  | All tasks related docs will be stored on a decentralized IPFS platform. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 1 | Decentralized Storage  | All tasks related docs will be stored on a decentralized IPFS platform. |
```

Reviewer: Which IPFS platform are you planning to use here?

Author: We are going to use NFT Storage Service

| 2 | Advanced Search  | Search based on task progress, tags, tasks or milestone id's. |

> | 3 | Frontend App  | Supporting frontend UI to test the aforementioned functionality. |

Reviewer: Same here - Can you provide wireframes?

Author: We will be providing a skeletal UI to showcase the features of dot_marketplace. [Phase1 Guide](https://github.com/WowLabz/dot_marketplace_docker/tree/Phase1_Milestone3]) has the UI screenshots for the same. This will be updated for the Phase3 functionalies.

| 4 | Website  | Dedicated one-page website for Dot Marketplace. |
| 5 | Article | Website article showing motivation behind phase 3 of dot marketplace and how to make the best use of it. |

### **Additional Project Details**

* Technology stack being used

>   * Rust, Substrate, React, Python, centralized cloud storage

Reviewer: What will you use _centralized cloud storage_ for?

Author: We are using it for the Authentication Server from Phase1, to manage User data.

### **Future Plans**

> This is the last phase in our current roadmap. Post this we would focus on partnerships with chains on the dotsama ecosystem for integrating DotMarketplace as their native bounty management tool (this work has already started). If future, if the traction is great, we could create a fresh proposal for an excellent UI or integrate DotMarketplace within PolkaJS Apps itself with native support for multiple tokens besides DOT.

Reviewer: > this work has already started

Can you update us on your progress here? In general, I agree with [Sebastians comment](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/pull/1205#issuecomment-1283033759) that it would be nice to see some indication here that there is interest in the community to use your product.

Reviewer 2: I'm back from my vacation.  
Can we take this up over chat? 
Would be happy to share messages exchanged with three projects. 
As well as show the UI, I mentioned earlier. 
Thank you.

Reviewer 3: @abeoye Unless you already talked to @takahser, can you send them to grants@web3.foundation? Otherwise, let me know your matrix handle and I'll create a room for you to post them in.

Author: Adding @abeoye's matrix handle [here](https://matrix.to/#/@amit.wow:matrix.org)

Reviewer 2: Hello @semuelle @takahser @Noc2 @alxs, 
Invited you to this [matrix room](https://matrix.to/#/!tQIEODncpjnXbyQfqc:matrix.org?via=matrix.org). 
Thanks!
